# ABOUT THIS BOOK

ABOUT THIS BOOK

This is a book about the gift that Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Sakakibara’s schoolchildren, and Ray Allen all shared—the ability to create, through the right sort of training and practice, abilities that they would not otherwise possess by taking advantage of the incredible adaptability of the human brain and body. Furthermore, it is a book about how anyone can put this gift to work in order to improve in an area they choose. And finally, in the broadest sense this is a book about a fundamentally new way of thinking about human potential, one that suggests we have far more power than we ever realized to take control of our own lives.

Since antiquity, people have generally assumed that a person’s potential in any given field is inevitably and unavoidably limited by that person’s inherent talent. Many people take piano lessons, but only those with some special gift become truly great pianists or composers. Every child is exposed to mathematics in school, but only a few have what it takes to become mathematicians or physicists or engineers. According to this view, each of us is born with a set of fixed potentials—a potential for music, a potential for mathematics, a potential for sports, a potential for business—and we can choose to develop (or not) any of those potentials, but we cannot fill any one of those particular “cups” up past its brim. Thus the purpose of teaching or training becomes helping a person reach his or her potential—to fill the cup as fully as possible. This implies a certain approach to learning that assumes preset limits.

But we now understand that there’s no such thing as a predefined ability. The brain is adaptable, and training can create skills—such as perfect pitch—that did not exist before. This is a game changer, because learning now becomes a way of creating abilities rather than of bringing people to the point where they can take advantage of their innate ones. In this new world it no longer makes sense to think of people as born with fixed reserves of potential; instead, potential is an expandable vessel, shaped by the various things we do throughout our lives. Learning isn’t a way of reaching one’s potential but rather a way of developing it. We can create our own potential. And this is true whether our goal is to become a concert pianist or just play the piano well enough to amuse ourselves, to join the PGA golf tour or just bring our handicaps down a few strokes.

[[Học tập không chỉ là đạt được tiềm năng, mà là phát triển tiềm năng đó lớn hơn nữa]]

The question then becomes, How do we do it? How do we take advantage of this gift and build abilities in our area of choice? Much of my research over the past several decades has been devoted to answering this question—that is, to identify and understand in detail the best ways to improve performance in a given activity. In short, I have been asking, What works and what doesn’t and why?

Surprisingly, this question has gotten very little attention from most of the people who have written about this general subject. Over the past few years a number of books have argued that people have been overestimating the value of innate talent and underestimating the value of such things as opportunity, motivation, and effort. I cannot disagree with this, and it is certainly important to let people know that they can improve—and improve a lot—with practice, or else they are unlikely to be motivated to even try. 

[[Không phải mọi loại thực hành, học tập đều khiến bạn phát triển được khả năng, mà phải làm đúng cách]]

But sometimes these books leave the impression that heartfelt desire and hard work alone will lead to improved performance—“Just keep working at it, and you’ll get there”—and this is wrong. The right sort of practice carried out over a sufficient period of time leads to improvement. Nothing else.

This book describes in detail what that “right sort of practice” is and how it can be put to work.

The details about this sort of practice are drawn from a relatively new area of psychology that can be best described as “the science of expertise.” This new field seeks to understand the abilities of “expert performers,” that is, people who are among the best in the world at what they do, who have reached the very peak of performance, and I have published several academic books on the topic, including Toward a General Theory of Expertise: Prospects and Limits in 1991, The Road to Excellence in 1996, and The Cambridge Handbook of Expertise and Expert Performance in 2006. Those of us in the expertise field investigate what sets these exceptional people apart from everyone else. We also try to assemble a step-by-step accounting of how these expert performers improved their performance over time and exactly how their mental and physical abilities changed as they improved. More than two decades ago, after studying expert performers from a wide range of fields, my colleagues and I came to realize that no matter what the field, the most effective approaches to improving performance all follow a single set of general principles. We named this universal approach “deliberate practice.” Today deliberate practice remains the gold standard for anyone in any field who wishes to take advantage of the gift of adaptability in order to build new skills and abilities, and it is the main concern of this book.

The first half of this book describes what deliberate practice is, why it works as well as it does, and how experts apply it to produce their extraordinary abilities. 

Nửa đầu quyển sách nói về định nghĩa của "thực hành có chủ đích", và cách hoạt động của nó

To do that we will have to examine various types of practice, from the least to the most sophisticated, and discuss what differentiates them. Because one of the key differences among different types of practice is the extent to which they harness the adaptability of the human brain and body, we will take some time to discuss that adaptability and what triggers it. We’ll also explore exactly what sorts of changes take place in the brain in response to deliberate practice. Because gaining expertise is largely a matter of improving one’s mental processes (including, in some fields, the mental processes that control body movements), and because physical changes such as increasing strength, flexibility, and endurance are already reasonably well understood, this book’s focus will be mostly on the mental side of expert performance, although there is certainly a significant physical component to expertise in sports and other athletic endeavors. After these explorations we will examine how everything fits together to produce an expert performer—a long-term process that generally takes a decade or more.

Next, in a brief interlude, we examine more closely the issue of innate endowment and what role it might play in limiting how far some people can go in attaining expert performance. There are some inherited physical characteristics, such as height and body size, that can influence performance in various sports and other physical activities and that cannot be changed by practice. However, most traits that play a role in expert performance can be modified by the right sort of practice, at least during some period of one’s lifespan. More generally, there is a complex interplay between genetic factors and practice activities that we are just beginning to understand. Some genetic factors may influence a person’s ability to engage in sustained deliberate practice—for instance, by limiting a person’s capability to focus for long periods of time every day. Conversely, engaging in extended practice may influence how genes are turned on and off in the body.

The last part of the book takes everything we have learned about deliberate practice by studying expert performers and explains what it means for the rest of us. I offer specific advice about putting deliberate practice to work in professional organizations in order to improve the performance of employees, about how individuals can apply deliberate practice to get better in their areas of interest, and even about how schools can put deliberate practice to work in the classroom.

While the principles of deliberate practice were discovered by studying expert performers, the principles themselves can be used by anyone who wants to improve at anything, even if just a little bit. Want to improve your tennis game? Deliberate practice. Your writing? Deliberate practice. Your sales skills? Deliberate practice. Because deliberate practice was developed specifically to help people become among the best in the world at what they do and not merely to become “good enough,” it is the most powerful approach to learning that has yet been discovered.

Here is a good way to think about it: You wish to climb a mountain. You’re not sure how high you want to go—that peak looks an awfully long way off—but you know you want to get higher than you currently are. You could simply take off on whichever path looks promising and hope for the best, but you’re probably not going to get very far. Or you could rely on a guide who has been to the peak and knows the best way there. That will guarantee that no matter how high you decide to climb, you are doing it in the most efficient, effective way. That best way is deliberate practice, and this book is your guide. It will show you the path to the peak; how far you travel along that path is up to you.