# THE LESSON OF PERFECT PITCH

THE LESSON OF PERFECT PITCH

[[Khi lên 7 tuổi Mozart trình diễn ở thị trấn Salburg và bắt đầu nổi tiếng từ đó]] 

The year is 1763, and a young Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is about to embark on a tour around Europe that will jump-start the Mozart legend. Just seven years old and barely tall enough to see over the top of a harpsichord, he captivates audiences in his hometown of Salzburg with his skill on the violin and various keyboard instruments. 

He plays with a facility that seems impossible to believe in someone so young. But Mozart has another trick up his sleeve that is, if anything, even more surprising to the people of his era. We know about this talent because it was described in a rather breathless letter to the editor about the young Mozart that was published in a newspaper in Augsburg, Mozart’s father’s hometown, shortly before Mozart and his family left Salzburg for their tour.

[[Mozart chỉ cần nghe là phân biệt được cao độ của nốt nhạc khi còn bé]] 

The letter writer reported that when the young Mozart heard a note played on a musical instrument—any note—he could immediately identify exactly which note it was: the A-sharp in the second octave above middle C, perhaps, or the E-flat below middle C. 

Mozart could do this even if he was in another room and could not see the instrument being played, and he could do it not just for the violin and fortepiano but for every instrument he heard—and Mozart’s father, as a composer and music teacher, had nearly every imaginable musical instrument in his house. Nor was it just musical instruments. The boy could identify the notes produced by anything that was sufficiently musical—the chime of a clock, the toll of a bell, the ah-choo of a sneeze. It was an ability that most adult musicians of the time, even the most experienced, could not match, and it seemed, even more than Mozart’s skill on keyboard and violin, to be an example of the mysterious gifts that this young prodigy had been born with.

[[Khả năng cảm âm của Mozart còn được gọi là perfect pitch]] 

That ability is not quite so mysterious to us today, of course. We know a good deal more about it now than 250 years ago, and most people today have at least heard of it. The technical term is “absolute pitch,” although it is better known as “perfect pitch,” and it is exceptionally rare—only about one in every ten thousand people has it. 

It is much less rare among world-class musicians than among the rest of us, but even among virtuosos it is far from normal: Beethoven is thought to have had it; Brahms did not. Vladimir Horowitz had it; Igor Stravinsky did not. Frank Sinatra had it; Miles Davis did not.

It would seem, in short, to be a perfect example of an innate talent that a few lucky people are born with and most are not. Indeed, this is what was widely believed for at least two hundred years. But over the past few decades a very different understanding of perfect pitch has emerged, one that points to an equally different vision of the sorts of gifts that life has to offer.

The first hint emerged with the observation that the only people who had received this “gift” had also received some sort of musical training early in their childhood. In particular, a good deal of research has shown that nearly everyone with perfect pitch began musical training at a very young age—generally around three to five years old. But if perfect pitch is an innate ability, something that you are either born with or not, then it shouldn’t make any difference whether you receive music training as a child. All that should matter is that you get enough musical training—at any time in your life—to learn the names of the notes.

[[Những người nói ngôn ngữ có âm sắc có khả năng cảm âm tốt]] 

The next clue appeared when researchers noticed that perfect pitch is much more common among people who speak a tonal language, such as Mandarin, Vietnamese, and several other Asian tongues, in which the meaning of words is dependent on their pitch. 

If perfect pitch is indeed a genetic gift, then the only way that the tonal-language connection would make sense would be if people of Asian ancestry are more likely to have genes for perfect pitch than people whose ancestors came from elsewhere, such as Europe or Africa. But that is something that is easy to test for. You just recruit a number of people of Asian ancestry who grew up speaking English or some other nontonal language and see if they are more likely to have perfect pitch.

That research has been done, and it turns out that people of Asian heritage who don’t grow up speaking a tonal language are no more likely than people of other ethnicities to have perfect pitch. So it’s not the Asian genetic heritage but rather learning a tonal language that makes having perfect pitch more likely.

Up until a few years ago, this was pretty much what we knew: Studying music as a child was thought to be essential to having perfect pitch, and growing up speaking a tonal language increased your odds of having perfect pitch. 

[[Khả năng cảm âm là một năng khiếu, nếu không đào tạo sẽ mất]] 

Scientists could not say with certainty whether perfect pitch was an innate talent, but they knew that if it was a gift, it was a gift that only appeared among those people who had received some training in pitch in childhood. In other words, it would have to be some sort of “use it or lose it” gift. 

Even the lucky few people who are born with a gift for perfect pitch would have to do something—in particular, some sort of musical training while young—to develop it.

We now know that this isn’t the case, either. The true character of perfect pitch was revealed in 2014, thanks to a beautiful experiment carried out at the Ichionkai Music School in Tokyo and reported in the scientific journal Psychology of Music. The Japanese psychologist Ayako Sakakibara recruited twenty-four children between the ages of two and six and put them through a months-long training course designed to teach them to identify, simply by their sound, various chords played on the piano. The chords were all major chords with three notes, such as a C-major chord with middle C and the E and G notes immediately above middle C. The children were given four or five short training sessions per day, each lasting just a few minutes, and each child continued training until he or she could identify all fourteen of the target chords that Sakakibara had selected. Some of the children completed the training in less than a year, while others took as long as a year and a half. Then, once a child had learned to identify the fourteen chords, Sakakibara tested that child to see if he or she could correctly name individual notes. After completing training every one of the children in the study had developed perfect pitch and could identify individual notes played on the piano.

[[Mười ngàn người mới có một người phát triển được khả năng cảm âm]] 

[[24 học sinh của Sakakibara đều phát triển được khả năng cảm âm sau khi đào tạo]] 

This is an astonishing result. While in normal circumstances only one in every ten thousand people develops perfect pitch, every single one of Sakakibara’s students did. The clear implication is that perfect pitch, far from being a gift bestowed upon only a lucky few, is an ability that pretty much anyone can develop with the right exposure and training. The study has completely rewritten our understanding of perfect pitch.

So what about Mozart’s perfect pitch? A little investigation into his background gives us a pretty good idea of what happened. Wolfgang’s father, Leopold Mozart, was a moderately talented violinist and composer who had never had the degree of success he desired, so he set out to turn his children into the sort of musicians he himself had always wanted to be. He began with Mozart’s older sister, Maria Anna, who by the time she was eleven was described by contemporaries as playing the piano and harpsichord as well as professional adult musicians. The elder Mozart—who wrote the first training book for children’s musical development—began working with Wolfgang at an even younger age than he had started with Maria Anna. By the time Wolfgang was four, his father was working with him full time—on the violin, the keyboard, and more. While we don’t know exactly what exercises Mozart’s father used to train his son, we do know that by the time Mozart was six or seven he had trained far more intensely and for far longer than the two dozen children who developed perfect pitch through Sakakibara’s practice sessions. In retrospect, then, there should be nothing at all surprising about Mozart’s development of perfect pitch.

[[Khả năng cảm âm của Mozart là do được rèn luyện nhờ người cha, không phải là món quà trời ban]] 

So did the seven-year-old Wolfgang have a gift for perfect pitch? Yes and no. Was he born with some rare genetic endowment that allowed him to identify the precise pitch of a piano note or a whistling teakettle? Everything that scientists have learned about perfect pitch says no. 

Indeed, if Mozart had been raised in some other family without exposure to music—or without enough of the right sort of exposure—he would certainly have never developed that ability at all. Nonetheless, Mozart was indeed born with a gift, and it was the same gift that the children in Sakakibara’s study were born with. They were all endowed with a brain so flexible and adaptable that it could, with the right sort of training, develop a capability that seems quite magical to those of us who do not possess it.

[[Cơ hội được luyện tập để phát triển tài năng mới là một món quà trời ban]] 

In short, perfect pitch is not the gift, but, rather, the ability to develop perfect pitch is the gift—and, as nearly as we can tell, pretty much everyone is born with that gift.

This is a wonderful and surprising fact. In the millions of years of evolution leading up to modern humans, there were almost certainly no selection pressures favoring people who could identify, say, the precise notes that a bird was singing. Yet here we are today, able to develop perfect pitch with a relatively simple training regimen.

Only recently have neuroscientists come to understand why such a gift should exist. For decades scientists believed that we were born with our brains’ circuits pretty much fixed and that this circuitry determined our abilities. Either your brain was wired for perfect pitch, or it wasn’t, and there wasn’t much you could do to change it. You might need a certain amount of practice to bring that innate talent into full bloom, and if you didn’t get this practice, your perfect pitch might never develop fully, but the general belief was that no amount of practice would help if you didn’t have the right genes to start with.

But since the 1990s brain researchers have come to realize that the brain—even the adult brain—is far more adaptable than anyone ever imagined, and this gives us a tremendous amount of control over what our brains are able to do. In particular, the brain responds to the right sorts of triggers by rewiring itself in various ways. New connections are made between neurons, while existing connections can be strengthened or weakened, and in some parts of the brain it is even possible for new neurons to grow. This adaptability explains how the development of perfect pitch was possible in Sakakibara’s subjects as well as in Mozart himself: their brains responded to the musical training by developing certain circuits that enabled perfect pitch. We can’t yet identify exactly which circuits those are or say what they look like or exactly what they do, but we know they must be there—and we know that they are the product of the training, not of some inborn genetic programming.

In the case of perfect pitch, it seems that the necessary adaptability in the brain disappears by the time a child passes about six years old, so that if the rewiring necessary for perfect pitch has not occurred by then, it will never happen. (Although, as we will see in chapter 8, there are exceptions of a sort, and these exceptions can teach us a great deal about exactly how people take advantage of the brain’s adaptability.) This loss is part of a broader phenomenon—that is, that both the brain and the body are more adaptable in young children than in adults, so there are certain abilities that can only be developed, or that are more easily developed, before the age of six or twelve or eighteen. Still, both the brain and the body retain a great deal of adaptability throughout adulthood, and this adaptability makes it possible for adults, even older adults, to develop a wide variety of new capabilities with the right training.

With this truth in mind, let’s return to the question that I asked at the beginning: Why are some people so amazingly good at what they do? Over my years of studying experts in various fields, I have found that they all develop their abilities in much the same way that Sakakibara’s students did—through dedicated training that drives changes in the brain (and sometimes, depending on the ability, in the body) that make it possible for them to do things that they otherwise could not. Yes, in some cases genetic endowment makes a difference, particularly in areas where height or other physical factors are important. A man with genes for being five feet five will find it tough to become a professional basketball player, just as a six-foot woman will find it virtually impossible to succeed as an artistic gymnast at the international level. And, as we will discuss later in this book, there are other ways in which genes may influence one’s achievements, particularly those genes that influence how likely a person is to practice diligently and correctly. But the clear message from decades of research is that no matter what role innate genetic endowment may play in the achievements of “gifted” people, the main gift that these people have is the same one we all have—the adaptability of the human brain and body, which they have taken advantage of more than the rest of us.

Những người phát triển năng khiếu trong một lĩnh vực nào đó mà người khác thường cho là khác thường, hiếm khi họ nghĩ rằng họ đã đạt tới đỉnh, họ biết khả năng đó là do luyện tập và họ tiếp tục luyện tập để củng cố nó

If you talk to these extraordinary people, you find that they all understand this at one level or another. They may be unfamiliar with the concept of cognitive adaptability, but they seldom buy into the idea that they have reached the peak of their fields because they were the lucky winners of some genetic lottery. They know what is required to develop the extraordinary skills that they possess because they have experienced it firsthand.

One of my favorite testimonies on this topic came from Ray Allen, a ten-time All-Star in the National Basketball Association and the greatest three-point shooter in the history of that league. Some years back, ESPN columnist Jackie MacMullan wrote an article about Allen as he was approaching his record for most three-point shots made. In talking with Allen for that story, MacMullan mentioned that another basketball commentator had said that Allen was born with a shooting touch—in other words, an innate gift for three-pointers. Allen did not agree.

“I’ve argued this with a lot of people in my life,” he told MacMullan. “When people say God blessed me with a beautiful jump shot, it really pisses me off. I tell those people, ‘Don’t undermine the work I’ve put in every day.’ Not some days. Every day. Ask anyone who has been on a team with me who shoots the most. Go back to Seattle and Milwaukee, and ask them. The answer is me.” And, indeed, as MacMullan noted, if you talk to Allen’s high school basketball coach you will find that Allen’s jump shot was not noticeably better than his teammates’ jump shots back then; in fact, it was poor. But Allen took control, and over time, with hard work and dedication, he transformed his jump shot into one so graceful and natural that people assumed he was born with it. He took advantage of his gift—his real gift.